README.md, before:

# gpx-player
## GPX Race Visualizer

GPX Race Visualizer is a Python script to visualize the progression of multiple GPS tracks (e.g., from a race) on a 2D map. 
It takes as input one or more GPX files and creates an animation showing the movement of each track over time. 
This is a simple, open-source alternative to features like Strava's Flyby, which require an account and can have privacy issues.

## Installation

Clone the repository and install the required dependencies with pip:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kirienko/gpx-player.git
cd repo
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
To run the script, pass one or more GPX file paths as command-line arguments:
```bash
python main.py data/track1.gpx data/track2.gpx
```
### Additional parameters:
* `--start` or `-s`: start time in the format `2023-06-30T10:53:00+0200`, all points before that will not be plotted
* `--names` or `-n`: names of the participants (otherwise the file names will be used in the legend)


## Marks
The script also supports visualizing predefined marks on the map, which can be useful for events like sailing regattas.
The marks are defined as a list of (latitude, longitude) tuples in a separate Python file and can be added to the script as follows:
```python
marks = [(53.542484632728, 9.801163896918299),
         (53.542997846049374, 9.80611324310303),
         (53.54823800356785, 9.812614917755129),
         (53.54921647691311, 9.807373881340029),
         (53.54508251196638, 9.80433225631714),
         ]
```

## Getting GPX Files

GPX files can be obtained from several GPS-tracking services:
* Strava: Go to the activity page and click on the wrench icon. Then select "Export GPX".
* Garmin Connect: Open the activity, go to the gear icon and select "Export to GPX".
* Endomondo: From the workout page, click on the three-dot menu icon and select "Export". Then choose "GPX".

Always respect privacy and only use GPX files you have permission to use.

Commit message:

more command line parameters; README.md improved; better time handling; polishing

README.md, after:

# gpx-player
## GPX Race Visualizer

GPX Race Visualizer is a Python script to visualize the progression of multiple GPS tracks (e.g., from a race) on a 2D map. 
It takes as input one or more GPX files and creates an animation showing the movement of each track over time. 
This is a simple, open-source alternative to features like Strava's Flyby, which require an account and can have privacy issues.

## Example:
![Example output](example.gif "Example of the script output")

## Installation

Clone the repository and install the required dependencies with pip:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kirienko/gpx-player.git
cd repo
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
To run the script, pass one or more GPX file paths as command-line arguments:
```bash
python main.py data/track1.gpx data/track2.gpx
```
### Additional parameters:
* `--title` or `-t`: The title of the video
* `--start` or `-s`: start time in the format `2023-06-30T10:53:00+0200`, all points before that will not be plotted
* `--names` or `-n`: names of the participants (otherwise the file names will be used in the legend)
* `--race_start`, `-r`: Race start time in the format `YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS%z`, e.g. `2023-07-01T12:29:00+0200`
* `--names` or `-n`: Names of the participants
* `--marks`or`-m`: The file with the static marks to put onto the map. One pair of coordinates per line, see below.
* `--gif` or `-g`: Save as GIF moving picture instead of MP4

## Marks
The script also supports visualizing predefined marks on the map, which can be useful for events like sailing regattas.
The marks are defined as a list of (latitude, longitude) tuples in a separate text file and can be added to the script as follows:
```
53.542484632728, 9.801163896918299
53.542997846049374, 9.80611324310303
53.54823800356785, 9.812614917755129
53.54921647691311, 9.807373881340029
53.54508251196638, 9.80433225631714
```

## Getting GPX Files

GPX files can be obtained from several GPS-tracking services:
* Strava: Go to the activity page and click on the wrench icon. Then select "Export GPX".
* Garmin Connect: Open the activity, go to the gear icon and select "Export to GPX".
* Endomondo: From the workout page, click on the three-dot menu icon and select "Export". Then choose "GPX".
